HyperNeat
= Hypercube-based NeuroEvolution of augmenting topologies

indirect endocing
mapping function descripes distribution between input and output functions. cCPPNS (Connective Compositional Pattern Producing Networks)
Topology of the Network leads the search 
Scalability to new number of inputs and outputs

Annahme: Verknüpfungen folgen Verteilungen. Diese wiederholen sich auch in der Natur,Gehirn
Biologie Neurone mit ähnlicher Funktion sind gruppiert,

Es muss ähnliche strukturen im Gehirn geben, da 30,000 gene 100*10^4 neurone codieren -> indirect encoding

cCPPNS (Connective Compositional Pattern Producing Networks)
	-> cennectiveity pattern as function in cartesian space
	->  represent pattern in hyperspace which are mapped to lower dimensional cennectivity pattern
phenotype function of n dimensions (n number of dimensions in physical space) -> each coodrinate of this space is output of function that encodes phenotype.
Compositional Pattern Producing Networks-> produce sptial patterns by combination of basic functions
 -> different basic functions: sinus, lines,  gaussians...
e.g choose inus functions for symmetric building symmetric funtions

CPPN produces ANN
Combination with NEAT: start with easy patterns -> get to more complex ones

Connection in 2d space descriped by 2 points -> 4 coordinates -> CPPN has 4 inputs -> 4d Hypercube
CPPN Produces substrate
substrate = generated connectivity pattern of nodes
oder substrate = placement of neurons

Substrat configration: Grid, THree Dimension, 2Layer sandwich, cicular...
Placing of neurons is free choosable, so one encode relationships between neurons directly in the substrate with distances.
Example receptive field in retina, just moved connectivity pattern

Substrate Resolution.
-> change solution without learning. E,g take 7 sensors instead of 5. if spatial symmetry detected, new resolution also quite likely to learn.


Workflow: 
Population with minimal CPPNS and random weights.
	repeat:
	for each member : query substrate, if weight is heiger than threshold -> realize connection. Than determine fitness of created ANN.
Reproducing with NEAT

	 